+++
title = "Rust in 2018"
date = 2018-01-14
path = "blog/2018/01/14/rust-in-2018/"
+++


This is my contribution to the [#Rust2018 blog posts](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/01/03/new-years-rust-a-call-for-community-blogposts.html).

# Why I started with Rust

My daily job is to implement scalable backends in Scala.

I very like Functional Programming and async IO.

But I have some pain point in Scala/JVM and I was very interested to see how Rust could fit here:

## FP in Scala is not GC-friendly

FP in Scala tends to create a lot of small living objects, putting pressure on the Garbage Collector.

For very hot code, I have to re-implement some FP scala code into imperative style for better performances, and I very dislike that.

Rust on the other hand provide abstractions without overhead (or very little).

## Java programs tend to be very "fat"

A Rust program can be statically compiled and directly packaged as a [from scratch docker container](https://github.com/yanns/zeugnis/blob/master/Dockerfile), very lightweight compared to java applications that needs a distribution and a JVM.

# Rust in 2017

In 2017, I tried different programs in Rust, from a [minimal SDK](https://github.com/sphereio/sphere-hello-api/tree/master/rust) that I tried to move to [async IO](https://github.com/sphereio/sphere-hello-api/tree/async_hyper/rust), to a GUI program. I tried a lot of different HTTP servers.

And I contributed to an [HTTP proxy](https://github.com/hjr3/weldr) based on Tokio and Futures.

# Rust in 2018

My wishes for Rust in 2018 are mostly based on the pain I had with Rust in 2017:

## Easier Futures

My experience with Futures was... very painful.

I had a lot of strange compiler errors, especially with lifetimes.

Sometimes, to fix then, I just had to move one variable from one closure to the upper one, something that makes no sense from the implement logic point of view.

I have a lot of difficulties with the static lifetime of Futures.

I hope that this will improve. Maybe non lexical lifetimes will help here.

- `impl Trait` feature


And I'll also follow the [async/await coroutines](https://github.com/alexcrichton/futures-await).

## a "standard" HTTP server for backends

I'd need a good asynchronous http server ready for production usage, with  a good community.
There should exist good libraries that can integrate easily with this "standard" HTTP server, like for logs and metrics.